docs/api/cautious-journey.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [cautious-journey](./cautious-journey.md)

## cautious-journey package

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [GithubRemote](./cautious-journey.githubremote.md) | Github/Octokit API implementation of the <code>Remote</code> contract. |
|  [GitlabRemote](./cautious-journey.gitlabremote.md) | Gitlab API implementation of the <code>Remote</code> contract. |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [resolveLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.resolvelabels.md) | Resolve the desired set of labels, given a starting set and the flags/states to be applied. |
|  [syncIssueLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.syncissuelabels.md) | goes through and resolves each issue in the project. if there are changes and no errors, then updates the issue. |
|  [syncProjectLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.syncprojectlabels.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [Remote](./cautious-journey.remote.md) | Basic functions which every remote API must provide. |
|  [RemoteOptions](./cautious-journey.remoteoptions.md) |  |
|  [ResolveInput](./cautious-journey.resolveinput.md) | Collected inputs for a resolver run. |
|  [ResolveResult](./cautious-journey.resolveresult.md) | Collected results from a resolver run. |
|  [StateChange](./cautious-journey.statechange.md) | The transition between two state values. |
|  [StateLabel](./cautious-journey.statelabel.md) | Grouped labels: the equivalent of a radio group. |
|  [StateValue](./cautious-journey.statevalue.md) | One of many values for a particular state. |
|  [SyncOptions](./cautious-journey.syncoptions.md) |  |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [FlagLabel](./cautious-journey.flaglabel.md) | Individual labels: the equivalent of a checkbox. |

Commit message:

feat(config): validate using json schema, compare issue labels for update

docs/api/cautious-journey.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [cautious-journey](./cautious-journey.md)

## cautious-journey package

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [GithubRemote](./cautious-journey.githubremote.md) | Github/Octokit API implementation of the <code>Remote</code> contract. |
|  [GitlabRemote](./cautious-journey.gitlabremote.md) | Gitlab API implementation of the <code>Remote</code> contract. |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [resolveLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.resolvelabels.md) | Resolve the desired set of labels, given a starting set and the flags/states to be applied. |
|  [syncIssueLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.syncissuelabels.md) | goes through and resolves each issue in the project. if there are changes and no errors, then updates the issue. |
|  [syncProjectLabels(options)](./cautious-journey.syncprojectlabels.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [ChangeSet](./cautious-journey.changeset.md) | A set of labels to add and/or remove. |
|  [Remote](./cautious-journey.remote.md) | Basic functions which every remote API must provide. |
|  [RemoteOptions](./cautious-journey.remoteoptions.md) |  |
|  [ResolveInput](./cautious-journey.resolveinput.md) | Collected inputs for a resolver run. |
|  [ResolveResult](./cautious-journey.resolveresult.md) | Collected results from a resolver run. |
|  [StateLabel](./cautious-journey.statelabel.md) | Grouped labels: the equivalent of a radio group. |
|  [StateValue](./cautious-journey.statevalue.md) | One of many values for a particular state. |
|  [SyncOptions](./cautious-journey.syncoptions.md) |  |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [FlagLabel](./cautious-journey.flaglabel.md) | Individual labels: the equivalent of a checkbox. |
